docs(Accessibility): add accessibility spec (#2237)
stardust-ui/react: specs/Accessibility.md

## Keyboard navigation
- All elements that are interactive need to be focusable using keyboard keys (TAB/Shift+Tab or arrow keys)
- Elements that have click or right-click (contextmenu) handlers need to respond to Enter/Space or secondary action shortcuts. Users need to be able to initiate the click or right click when using screen readers.
- Focused element needs to be highlighted if it was focused by keyboard
- Focus should never go to the ``<body>`` element
- User needs to be able to move focus at any time, focus should not be be 'stuck' on one element
- In RTL mode, left arrow key moves the focus to the next focusable element, right arrow key moves the focus to the previous focusable element within the focus zone.

## Focus
- Whenever possible, focus should land only on elements that have concrete implicit or explicit ARIA role (`<button />`, `role='button'`, `role='menuitem'`, ....)
- onClick event handlers need to be handled on focusable elements with implicit or explicit ARIA role and not on their parent/child elements

> - When reacting to on focus or on hover events, screen reader interaction needs to be specified. Some screen readers do not have the concept of hovering and not always focus elements, so the screen reader needs another way to interact with the elements. For example showing popups on focus or on hover needs to have an alternatve interaction compatible with the screen readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When reacting to on focus or on hover events, screen reader interaction needs to be specified. Some screen readers do not have the concept of hovering and don't always focus elements, so the screen reader needs another way to interact with them. For example showing popups on focus or on hover needs to have an alternative interaction compatible with the screen readers.
```

> ## Screen reader support

Reviewer 2: Would be helpful to add guidance for scan mode or at least warnings of lack of scan mode support because a lot of issues coming in currently are regarding this special feature of Narrator (which since it is a Microsoft AT users expect our controls to work with it fully).

User needs to be able to interact with the application using:
- screen reader with virtual cursor navigation (browse mode)
- screen reader without virtual cursor navigation (application mode)

All requirements for keyboard navigation are valid in both of these screen reader use cases. User needs to be able to understand which element is focused and how he can interact with it just based on the information provided by the screen reader.

Following combinations of clients and screen readers is supported/required:
- Windows/Chrome - JAWS, NVDA
- Windows/Edge - Narrator
- Windows/Firefox - NVDA
- macOS/Chrome - VoiceOver

## Contrast
- There has to be [sufficient contrast](https://accessibility.umn.edu/core-skills/color-contrast) between background and foreground of the component (text, icon...) in all component states and themes.

## Zoom
- Elements need to be rendered correctly when zoomed up to 400%

> - Content need to be able to [reflow](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/reflow.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Content needs to be able to [reflow](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/reflow.html)
```

## Component creation process
1. Create accessible component prototype
2. Validate the prototype (test with all supported screen reader / OS combinations)
3. Design and develop the component
4. Test the component
5. Formulate meaningful best practices providing information, what the consumer need to do in order to achieve optimal experience
6. Extend accessibility validation schema to reflect the best practices

## Using behaviors in the components
Every component relevant to accessibility needs to have:
- default accessibility behavior, including specification or description in it's `@accessibility` jsdoc section
- optionally other available accessibility attributes, listed in `@available` jsdoc section
- `accessibility` property with default value specified
- `Best practices` section describing concerns that are not covered by the component itself and the user need to implement them or provide required information

## Overriding and extending accessibility
Consumers can override any attribute that has been evaluated by the behavior simply by passing it directly to the component:
```jsx
<Checkbox aria-checked={false} ... />
```

> Components also respect onKeyDown prop for event listeners. If used, the listener is called after the keys from the behavior have been processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Components also respect the `onKeyDown` prop for event listeners. If used, the listener is called after the keys from the behavior have been processed.
```

# Requirements

## ARIA conformance
In general, components need to conform to the [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices 1.2](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/). These practices are evaluated to achieve best possible user experience with supported browser/screen reader combinations.

## Keyboard navigation

> - All elements that are interactive need to be focusable using keyboard keys (TAB/Shift+Tab or arrow keys)

Reviewer 3: I recommend to add on sentence about actionable controls (Enter/Space/Esc)

Reviewer 3: and also we need info about opening context menus

- Focus should never go to the ``<body>`` element
- User needs to be able to move focus at any time, focus should not be be 'stuck' on one element
- In RTL mode, left arrow key moves the focus to the next focusable element, right arrow key moves the focus to the previous focusable element within the focus zone.

## Focus
- Whenever possible, focus should land only on elements that have concrete implicit or explicit ARIA role (`<button />`, `role='button'`, `role='menuitem'`, ....)
- onClick event handlers need to be handled on focusable elements with implicit or explicit ARIA role and not on their parent/child elements
- When reacting on focus or on hover screen reader interaction needs to be specified. Some screen readers do not have concept of hovering and not always focus elements, so there needs to be another way for the screen reader users to interact with such elements. For example showing popups on focus or on hover needs to be justified and alternative interaction compatible with the screen readers need to be provided

## Screen reader support
User needs to be able to interact with the application using:

> - screen reader with virtual cursor navigation

Reviewer 3: I propose to add definition of these modes

- screen reader with virtual cursor navigation (Browse Mode)
- screen reader without virtual cursor navigation (Application Mode)

Good application mode is useful for power users too

- screen reader witout virtual cursor navigation

All requirements for keyboard navigation are valid in both of these screen reader use cases. User needs to be able to understand which element is focused and how he can interact with it just based on the information provided by the screen reader.

Following combinations of clients and screen readers is supported/required:
- Windows/Chrome - JAWS, NVDA

> - Windows/Edge - Narrator

Reviewer 3: I think this is valid only for old Edge, not for Edge Chromium.
I believe Edge Chromium should work with JAWS and NVDA

Author: all combinations _should_ work, this is just saying which of those we test and support officially.

- Windows/Firefox - NVDA

> - macOS/Chrome - VoiceOver

Reviewer 3: what is the story with IE?

Author: IE is not in our list of officially supported browser/screen reader combinations

# Requirements

## ARIA conformance
In general, components need to conform to the [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices 1.2](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/). These practices are evaluated to achieve best possible user experience with supported browser/screen reader combinations.

## Keyboard navigation
- All elements that are interactive need to be focusable using keyboard keys (TAB/Shift+Tab or arrow keys)
- Elements that have click or right-click (contextmenu) handlers need to respond to Enter/Space or secondary action shortcuts. Users need to be able to initiate the click or right click when using screen readers.

> - Focused element needs to be highlighted if it was focused by keyboard

Reviewer 4: Is this behavior is general enough?

- Focus should never go to the ``<body>`` element
- User needs to be able to move focus at any time, focus should not be be 'stuck' on one element
- In RTL mode, left arrow key moves the focus to the next focusable element, right arrow key moves the focus to the previous focusable element within the focus zone.

## Focus
- Whenever possible, focus should land only on elements that have concrete implicit or explicit ARIA role (`<button />`, `role='button'`, `role='menuitem'`, ....)
- onClick event handlers need to be handled on focusable elements with implicit or explicit ARIA role and not on their parent/child elements

> - When reacting on focus or on hover screen reader interaction needs to be specified. Some screen readers do not have concept of hovering and not always focus elements, so there needs to be another way for the screen reader users to interact with such elements. For example showing popups on focus or on hover needs to be justified and alternative interaction compatible with the screen readers need to be provided

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- When reacting to on focus or on hover events, screen reader interaction needs to be specified. Some screen readers do not have the concept of hovering, so the screen reader needs another way to interact with the elements. For example showing popups on focus or on hover needs to have an alternative interaction compatible with the screen readers.
```

Author: applied your suggestion but kept the informaiton about focus as well

## Screen reader support
User needs to be able to interact with the application using:
- screen reader with virtual cursor navigation (browse mode)

> - screen reader witout virtual cursor navigation (application mode)

Reviewer 6: small typo:
without

All requirements for keyboard navigation are valid in both of these screen reader use cases. User needs to be able to understand which element is focused and how he can interact with it just based on the information provided by the screen reader.

Following combinations of clients and screen readers is supported/required:
- Windows/Chrome - JAWS, NVDA
- Windows/Edge - Narrator
- Windows/Firefox - NVDA
- macOS/Chrome - VoiceOver

## Contrast

> - There has to be sufficient contrast between background and foreground of the component (text, icon...) in all component states and themes.

Reviewer 5: This could use more info, links to specs etc

## Zoom

> - Elements need to be rendered correctly when zoomed up to 400%

Reviewer 5: again, link to reflow spec would be useful here.

# Components and Behaviors
There are two areas that come together to achieve accessibility:

> * Components - implemented for each supported framwork (currently React), when rendered, need to be [semantically correct](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_HTML)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Components - implemented for each supported framework (currently React), when rendered, need to be [semantically correct](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_HTML)
```

> * Behaviors - framework independent, intended to add ARIA roles, ARIA attributes and keyboard handling on top of the components based on their type and state. In the future, behaviors development will move from the [Stardust react](https://github.com/stardust-ui/react) repo to [Stardust accessibility](https://github.com/stardust-ui/accessibility) repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Behaviors - framework independent, intended to add ARIA roles, ARIA attributes and keyboard handling on top of the components based on their type and state. In the future, behaviors development will move from the [Fluent UI react](https://github.com/fluent-ui-react/react) repo to [Fluent UI accessibility](https://github.com/fluent-ui-react/accessibility) repo.
```

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Behaviors - framework independent, intended to add ARIA roles, ARIA attributes and keyboard handling on top of the components based on their type and state. In the future, behaviors development will move from the [Fluent UI `react`](https://github.com/fluent-ui-react/react) package to [Fluent UI `accessibility`](https://github.com/fluent-ui-react/accessibility) package.
```

Reviewer 8: the url is wrong for all of these. They are missing the Microsoft account in the url.

Author: the last sentence is out of date now, removed, thanks for noticing.

**Accessibility behaviors** reflect the need to have a set of validated and carefully tested alternatives available for the consumers that guarantee the accessibility of the component in various use cases. In some cases, accessibility can be highly oppinionated and the behaviors allow consumers to implement accessibility aspects of the components in a customized way, that better fits the requirements of the consumer.

Accessibility behavior is a function that takes properties of the component combined with state and maps it to:

> - `role`, `aria-*` attributes, `tabIndex` and other attributes related to accessibility

Reviewer 2: I think there should be guidance added somewhere about how to add/modify ARIA props. For example, when I was looking at how to add support for `aria-mixed` (indeterminate state for checkbox), I looked at the contributing.md file for Accessibility and couldn't find anything about it. @layershifter pointed me to packages/accessibility/src/behaviors/Checkbox/checkboxBehavior.ts and until he did that it was unclear that this is how Fluent UI's accessibility infra is structured - that there's a whole other package and a separate "behavior file" for each component's aria props/keyboarding events/etc

> - assignement of keyboard keys to component actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- assignment of keyboard keys to component actions
```

> - focus zone (arrow key navigation) definition

Reviewer 6: maybe plural?  "arrow keys"

## Component creation process
1. Create accessible component prototype

> 2. Validate the prototype (test with all supported screen reader / OS combinations)

Reviewer 6: maybe plural? "readers"

3. Design and develop the component
4. Test the component

> 5. Formulate meaningful best practices providing information, what the consumer need to do in order to achive optimal experience

Reviewer 6: small type "achieve"

6. Extend accessibility validation schema to reflect the best practices

## Using behaviors in the components
Every component relevant to accessibility needs to have:
- default accessibility behavior, including specification or description in it's `@accessibility` jsdoc section
- optionally other available accessibility attributes, listed in `@available` jsdoc section
- `accessibility` property with default value specified

> - Best practices section describing concerns that are not covered by the component itself and the user need to implement them or provide required information

Reviewer 6: maybe start with lower case letter "best"

# Testing
Every change needs to be tested for following use cases mentioned above.

## Test automation
It is estimated that test automation can discover around 30% of accessibility issues.
Components need to be unit-tested using [axe-core](https://www.deque.com/axe/). Using other test automation tools is also being considered.

## Manual testing
Manual testing with all supported client/screen reader combinations is required.

## Validation framework
Fluent UI development build includes [Ability attributes](https://github.com/microsoft/ability-attributes) validation framework that validates the accessibility on the documentation page in real time. Any detected error is immediately reported in the bottom edge of the window.

> The [schema](https://github.com/microsoft/fluent-ui-react/blob/master/packages/ability-attributes/schema.json) that defines the accessibility rules is higly customizable and needs to reflect current state of the components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [schema](https://github.com/microsoft/fluent-ui-react/blob/master/packages/ability-attributes/schema.json) that defines the accessibility rules is highly customizable and needs to reflect the current state of the components.
```
